Let's take a look, I'll just give you a
couple examples and
then I'll move to the actual [UNKNOWN]
just so you can see things.
So here's the mean.
I took the mean of x, x doesn't exist.
So if you take the mean of something
that doesn't exist you're clearly going to
get an error.
Here it says so you get the error message
this is produced by the stop function.
And I call the traceback.
It tells me where the error occurs.
Well the error just occurs like right away
at the top of the mean function.
So that, so the function
mean didn't actually call any other
functions, right because it
couldn't because it couldn't figure out,
it couldn't evaluate your argument.
And so, that's where the error occurs so,
you know that may or may not be.
Many times that's just that is where the
error will occur at the top level
function.
so, that in that case the trace-back's not
very handy.
One thing that's useful to, that, that the
trace-back is useful for,
is for when you're communicating with
someone else over email, for example, me.
And you say, you know I get an error when
I call, you know, whatever function.
Its very useful if we just say use the
trace-back, when I get after I get the
error.
And then I can see okay, wha, what was the
list of function calls, I mean.
Unless the trace-back looks like this,
then near dud bug, but
when you're communicating with someone
about an error and a function,
its very handy just to print out the
trace-back, so that
they can seek out where the error occurred
in the hierarchy
of functions.
You have to call traceback immediately
after the error occurs.
If you execute some other code and
then call traceback it's not going to
work, right?
Because the traceback will only give you
the most recent error.
If you execute another function and
there's no error well then there's
no traceback to give because there's no
error in the, in the next.
ex, execution.
So you have to you've to call it right
away.
Here's a slightly more interesting trace
back so I
call it LM, which is the linear modeling
function.
I said y tilda x.
So y tilda x.
They don't exist.
And so I'm getting an error that says y
cannot be found.
Were to that error occur?
Well actually it occurred several levels
deep actually.
So here I called L M and the L M arrow
function is a little funky.
So I don't expect you to understand all
this but
L M called e val on what's called a mono
frame.
Then that, it's then and then that called
e val again
which called the model frame function
which called the model frame default.
Model frame is a generic function that
called a model frame default function.
Then it called the eval function again on
this.
And then, the and at the seventh
level, here.
That's where the error occurred.
Okay.
So and it basically it occurred because it
tried to evaluate my formula here.
Which is y tilda x.
That's what all e val calls are for.
And and it couldn't.
And when it evaluated the formula it
couldn't find the actual value of y and x.
So then, that's where the error occurred.
So printing out something like this can be
very useful.
If you're trying to get help from someone
else and you're,
and you're, and you're kind of trying to
debug your function together, okay?
So so that's
the traceback, there.
The debug function doesn't really work
well in the static format
like this, but I'll show, I'll just show
you that, but
But, basically I could debug the l m, so
you can
debug any function, doesn't matter if you
wrote it or not.
So I can debug the l m function, and now
when I call l m y fill
the x it you get this debugging in and
I'll give you the the expression that you
called.
And I'll first thing it will do is it will
print out the entire code of the function,
so this
is a lot longer than so I just I just put
I just cut cut it off in
the middle here but the first thing it
does
is it prints out the whole function body
code okay.
And then you get this little prompt at the
bottom here
the browse [UNKNOWN] so now you're in
what's called the browser.
Okay?
And the browser is just like your r
workspace, actually.
you, you can think of it like a work space
embedded within a work space.
Right?
So,
and but, but the elements of the
workspace.
Are, sorry, so the environment of that
workspace in the browser is your function
environment.
So the things that are in your function
are what are in your environment.
So at, at the very top of this function
you just
actually, there's nothing in your
environment
except for the function arguments, right.
So what are the function arguments?
Well, the first one is the formula?
So I have a formula in my environment
which is this
y tilda x, but that's it.
So anyway so now I can well there are
actually I should say
there are other arguments so l'm too which
are default values.
But they are not, they are not listed
there, but they do, they also, they,
I shouldn't say there is more than just a
formula because there is other arguments.
So here what I do is I press n for next
and it runs the first line.
When I hit
n and then enter and it runs the first
line.
N then enter runs the second line.
N enter third.
I just keep hitting n, n, n, so I run, and
I just
execute each line until I get to the line
where the error occurs.
So when you get to the line where the
error occurs.
And you execute it.
You'll get an error just like you did
before.
It's not going to magically fix the
problem by itself.
But, at least you'll know where that error
occurred, okay?
So and further more, suppose you want
you can debug functions within the
debugger, right?
So, you can I can call, if I want so, I
can call.
So this match.call function I just kind of
stepped right over
it but I could have gone into this
function by calling
debug on match.call before executing it
and then when this
got executed I'd be in the third level of
the browser.
Ah, so these things can nest and then as
you go so they come like a stack
of browser frames right?
So so you can, you can, you can call the
debug function on functions.
While you're, even while you're in the
debugger.
And you can step through functions even
while
you're kind of debugging your top level
functions.
The recover function, so the you can set
the recover to be this kind of error
handler by using the options function.
So you say options error equals recover.
And,
and that will set a global option, right?
So now this will, this will, this behavior
will curve ever,
everything you do as long as your r
session is open.
As soon as you quit it will go away and
then if you start
up R somewhere else it's not going, it's
not going to save that option.
So now I'm going to what I'm trying to do
is
I'm going to read that csv some file that
doesn't exist.
Okay, and then you get an error and
you get the error message, cannot open the
connection.
And you get some warning also.
And now bu, but instead of getting my
console back, I get a little menu here.
And this menu is the function call stack,
okay.
So it's the same thing that you would get
back, if you called trace back after the
error.
Right, so reed.csv is that I called,
remember reed.csv is just a [UNKNOWN] for
reed.tables.
So Reed.csv called reed.table and then
reed.table called the file function,
because we wanted to create a file
connection with my file, no such file.
Right?
And then when it tried to create that file
connection.
Obviously you couldn't find the file, and
that's where the error occurred, okay?
So the error occurred at the third level
in the
function call stacks, so what you can do,
is you
can press a number one, two, three [SOUND]
and then
you can kind of browse the environment of
that function.
So if I want to see
okay, what was the read, what was going on
in read.csv, I can just press
one here, and then it would show me kind
of the environment of the read.csv.
And, and then I can break out of that
and look at the environment for
read.table, and et cetera.
And so you can, if you have a very long
function call stack, you can kind
of jump back and forth to see what was
going on at each, at each function call.
To to try out a pinpoint kind of where the
problem occurs.
Okay.
So so just to summarize really quickly
there's, there are
basically three main indications of some
sort of problem or condition.
There's the message warning error and of
the three
only the error will stop execution of the
function.
When you're analyzing a function that has
and you think
has a problem make sure you can reproduce
that problem.
And then you make sure you can articulate
how what do
your expectations and how'd and what the
output are that and how the output differs
from what you were expecting or [LAUGH]
I'd like to say what you are expecting.
And so that the, the interactive tools
trace
back, debug, browser, trace, and recover
can be used.
And it's, and the keyword actually here is
interactive.
The, the reason these tools are useful is
because they are interactive.
You can kind of do things on the console.
And of course the debugging tools
are not a substitute for thinking.
And so you should always think about
writing your code before, you know,
just throwing it to the wind and hoping
the debugger will catch it.